# jirrit

## Command line parameters

 - `-h` help message
 - `-v` logging enabled and more interactions. Most query actions need logging.
 - `-vv` verbose messages
 - `-vvv` verbose messages with network I/O
 - `-i string` provide an issue ID or assignee. Some actions are subjected to a certain issue or issues. Enter it when running or as a command param.
 - `-b string` provide a branch.
 - `-hd string` provide an new assignee for issue transfer.
 - `-p string` provide a project.
 - `-c string` provide a component or a comment.
 - `-s string` provide ID of a linked issue
 - `-k string` provide a key or description
 - `-f string` provide a file/dir to save attachment as
 - `-reverse` reverse output results
 - `-cfg string` provide a config file. It defaults to jirrit.xml under current dir or home dir.
 - `-log string` provide a log file. It defaults to jirrit.log under current dir.
 - `-getsvrcfg` prints configured servers
 - `-setsvrcfg` asks to configure servers
 - `-r string` provide a server's name
 - `-a string` provide an action's name

`-r` and `-a` are meant to be used together to avoid user input.

## Config xml

  As shown in example.xml, root name is **jirrit**.<BR>
  **log** file name can be configured.<BR>
  Server types are **JIRA** and **Gerrit**.<BR>
  Names need to be unique within each type.<BR>
  **url** is needed for every server. **pass** can be provided, if not same as overall config.
  **ip** is optional for a server for refernce only.

  Three kinds of passwords can be configured.
  - **basic** is the plain text password.
  - **plain** is coded text password. Tools such as Postman can show this in the output message.
  - **digest** is generated by a server.

  For Jira servers, there may be more to config for issue closure with some fields filled.<BR>
  - **project** is the previous X part of an ID X-0, used. This is maintained by the program.
Usually, these fields can be seen in an issue's detail.
  - **rejectrsn** is the field name for reject reasons.
  - **testpre** is the field name for test condition.
  - **teststep** is the field name for test steps.
  - **testexp** is the field name for test expectation.
  - **state** are state names. Supported attributes:
    - **not open** issues with states other than these will be listed as open issues
    - **transition reject** transitions with these names as steps are tried in order to reject an issue
    - **transition close** transitions with these names as steps are tried in order to close an issue

## Actions

- Jira
  - transfer a case to someone
  - move status of a case
  - show details of a case
  - list comments of a case
  - add a comment to a case
  - delete a comment from a case
  - change a comment from a case
  - list my open cases
  - link a case to another
  - reject a case from any known statuses
  - close a case to resolved from any known statuses (change it to resolved)
  - close a case with default design as steps (change it to resolved, adding test condition="none", steps="default design" and expectation="none")
  - close a case with general requirement as steps (change it to resolved, adding test condition="none", steps="general requirement" and expectation="none")
  - list watchers of a case
  - check whether watching a case
  - watch a case
  - unwatch a case
  - add a file to a case
  - list files attached to a case
  - get a file to a case (specify a full path, a file name under current dir, or a dir in existence, without current file under it. If no file name provided, the original file name of the attachment will be taken. If destination file already exists, this will fail.)
  - remove a file attached to a case

- Gerrit
  - list merged submits of someone
  - list my open submits
  - list sb.'s open submits
  - list all my open revisions/commits
  - list all open submits
  - show details of a submit (by commit ID or change ID)
  - show reviewers of a submit
  - show current revision/commit of a submit
  - rebase a submit
  - merge a submit
  - add scores to a submit (Code-Review +2, Verified +1, and Manual-Testing, or other field as configured, +1)
  - add socres, wait for it to be mergable and merge a submit
  - add socres, wait for it to be mergable and merge sb.'s submits
  - abandon all my open submits
  - abandon a submit
  - cherry pick all my open submits
  - cherry pick a submit
  - revert a submit
  - list files of a submit
  - list files of a submit by revision
  - list config of a project

## Input grammar

 - For gerrit, in most cases, input an ID that can make it distinguished, such as commit.<BR>
Be aware Change IDs are same among cherrypicks.
 - For most prompts, [Enter] without default value as shown is taken as an invalid input and return to previous menu.
 - If previous value is in the format of ".+\-[0-9]+", or X-0, to be easier to read, and the new input is just a number, it will be taken as the number replacing the previous number part.
 - In some cases, input support multiple lines. End an input with "\" to indicate it is a line of multiple ones and continue inputting.
 - In some cases,<BR>
Input ".+\-[0-9]+[,][,][0-9]+", or "X-0,,1", or "0,,1", to be easier to read, to batch process all the ID's between, and including, the two numbers.<BR>
Input "X-0,Y-1,2", to be easier to read, to batch process all the ID's listed, adding previous letter part. ("X-0,Y-1,2" will result in processing X-0, Y-1 and Y-2.)
